two years after the events of the first
film larry daly
former night guard at the american
museum of natural history
now runs his own direct response
television company that sells inventions
based on his experiences
he travels to the museum discovering
most of the exhibits will be moved to
the federal archives at the smithsonian
institution and replaced with
holographic information providers
the tablet of akmenra is to remain in
the museum leaving most of the exhibits
without the ability to come to life at
night
after the exhibits are moved larry
receives a phone call from jedediah who
informs him that dexter the monkey stole
the tablet and took it to the
smithsonian
bringing every exhibit in it to life
larry travels to washington
dc navigating his way to the archives
with help from his son nick while posing
as a night guard
larry finds his friends trapped in their
shipping container under attack from
mcmenra as evil older brother comunra
accidentally activating the tablet and
bringing the exhibits in the smithsonian
to life again
communra reveals his plans to use the
tablet's powers to conquer the world
larry escapes aided by a gigantic
octopus and general george a custer
who is captured and then the adventurous
amelia earhart
who becomes his traveling companion
around the museum
the two evade kamunra as army trapping
them in the portrait of vijay day in
times square
communra enlists trio of evil historical
leaders evan the terrible
napoleon bonaparte and al capone to help
capture larry and retrieve the tablet
jedediah tries to help but is placed in
an hourglass
communra is unable to open the gate of
the underworld without the tablet
and gives larry and amelia an hour to
translate it or communro will kill larry
and his friends
larry and amelia's friendship increases
to the point where she develops a crush
on him and ends up kissing him with the
flying sculptures of cupid singing love
songs to them including a rendition of
my heart will go on
larry and amelia travel to the national
air and space museum to find help
briefly encountering the statue of
abraham lincoln at the lincoln memorial
who confuses them for a couple inside
the museum
larry grounds all of the aircraft and
rockets from taking off
before a group of albert einstein
bobbleheads inform him that the
combination is the value of pie
amelia tries to convince larry for them
to be a couple but larry struggles to
tell her the truth that she is made of
wax
so they cannot be together napoleon
yvonne
and capone's troops arrive prompting
larry and amelia to escape using the
right flyer
they crash the plane into the
smithsonian where communra uses the
acquired combination to summon an army
of horus warriors
lincoln crashes in through the window
frightening the warriors back into the
underworld
lincoln then tells larry about his house
divided against itself quote
as a tip for the incoming battle amelia
gathers an army of allies including
larry's friends and custer
leading to a climactic battle although
custer is afraid to fight after
remembering the battle of little bighorn
larry persuades him to forget the past
and fight on
meanwhile octavius rescues jedediah and
together they turn the tide of the
battle
larry obtains the tablet and devises a
plan to stop kamunra
inspired by an idea given to him by
lincoln larry sparks a disagreement
between capone
bonaparte and yvonne causing them to
brawl amongst themselves
larry attempts to escape only to be cut
off by an angry communra
brandishing a kapash after a brief
scuffle between larry
armed with his flashlight and communra
amelia eventually manages to use the
tablet to open the gate
and larry finally defeats communra and
banishes him to the underworld
amelia flies larry and the new york
exhibits back home
even though larry does love amelia they
both know she has to leave
knowing she will become dust before
reaching the smithsonian
however the two share a final kiss
before she takes off
two months later larry sells his company
donating the money to the museum to
renovate it and keep it open later into
the night
and the exhibits remain capable of
moving about at night under the pretense
of being animatronics or hired
re-enactors
larry is rehired as a night guard and
aids a woman named tess who resembles
amelia during the debut of the museum's
new extension of visiting hours
you